src/content/blogs/installing-clickhouse-fixing-a-macos-issue.md, before:

---
title: Fixing a MacOS issue while installing Clickhouse 
date: 2025-05-13
description: how a OS library update can break your DB 
visible: false
tags: Database, blog
---

So, Yesterday I was installing clickhouse from source on my system(macbook air M2), I am glad that `Clickhouse` has a very good
documentation on their site for this purpose.
I referred to it but I was facing an issue whenever I was doing
```
cmake --build build
```
Error was something that `strchrnul` is redefined, previously it was defined in `MacOSX15.4` system libraries and then it was again 
defined in some postgres header file, I checked github to find out if there is any open issue on this. I found one issue but it was closed:
https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/issues/78804

In the issue comments it was mentioned that clang version is not supported, maybe because the author had specifically mentioned 
`clang 17.0.0` and `Clickhouse` only works on `clang 19` and that too non-apple one.
Our errors were similar though, so that prompted me to look up more on this issue and I got to know from a LLM that there is
a issue discovered in Postgres on this: 
https://www.postgresql.org/message-id/flat/407464.1743535559%40sss.pgh.pa.us#277a94029172f7d3de0048d46474ebf0

I checked the `cmake` file for `Postgres` and there was already a check regarding this. I wondered why then my build was failing.

I ran the command which was checking the version for my system, it was `xcrun --sdk macosx --show-sdk-version`. This command was returning me `15.2` but I checked in my error logs, library version which was being used was `15.4`. 

Because `xcrun` was returning a lower version, the cmake check was failing and `strchrnul` was also included, it wouldn't have failed
if we were getting `15.4`. 

I changed the way version was checked and re-ran the build commands, voila it worked.

I submitted my PR: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/pull/80228/files

It was interesting to know that how much an OS can change the stability of a system. MacOSX didn't come with their own `strchrnul` but in latest versions they are defining a constant for that.

Postgres had it declared when they were creating their software and now their changes were breaking. It was a nice reminder that unless you own everything in the stack, you can't be sure when and where your software can break.

Commit message:

blog: move tags to left

src/content/blogs/installing-clickhouse-fixing-a-macos-issue.md, after:

---
title: Fixing a MacOS script issue in ClickHouse while installing it 
date: 2025-05-13
description: how a OS library update can break your DB 
visible: true
tags: database, clickhouse
---

So, Yesterday I was installing clickhouse from source on my system(macbook air M2), I am glad that `Clickhouse` has a very good
documentation on their site for this purpose.
I referred to it but I was facing an issue whenever I was doing
```
cmake --build build
```
Error was something that `strchrnul` is redefined, previously it was defined in `MacOSX15.4` system libraries and then it was again 
defined in some postgres header file, I checked github to find out if there is any open issue on this. I found one issue but it was closed:
https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/issues/78804

In the issue comments it was mentioned that clang version is not supported, maybe because the author had specifically mentioned 
`clang 17.0.0` and `Clickhouse` only works on `clang 19` and that too non-apple one.
Our errors were similar though, so that prompted me to look up more on this issue and I got to know from a LLM that there is
a issue discovered in Postgres on this: 
https://www.postgresql.org/message-id/flat/407464.1743535559%40sss.pgh.pa.us#277a94029172f7d3de0048d46474ebf0

I checked the `cmake` file for `Postgres` and there was already a check regarding this. I wondered why then my build was failing.

I ran the command which was checking the version for my system, it was `xcrun --sdk macosx --show-sdk-version`. This command was returning me `15.2` but I checked in my error logs, library version which was being used was `15.4`. 

Because `xcrun` was returning a lower version, the cmake check was failing and `strchrnul` was also included, it wouldn't have failed
if we were getting `15.4`. 

I changed the way version was checked and re-ran the build commands, voila it worked.

I submitted my PR: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/pull/80228/files

It was interesting to know that how much an OS can change the stability of a system. MacOSX didn't come with their own `strchrnul` but in latest versions they are defining a constant for that.

Postgres had it declared when they were creating their software and now their changes were breaking. It was a nice reminder that unless you own everything in the stack, you can't be sure when and where your software can break.

Post this merge, it was easy to set up my system for Clickhouse, To run the database locally, we
just need to run the following commands, if you have recently taken a pull then you also need to 
update the submodules and then run these commands. These are taken from official [docs](https://clickhouse.com/docs/development/build-osx)

```shell
export PATH=$(brew --prefix llvm)/bin:$PATH
cmake -S . -B build && cmake --build build
```

if you have recently updated the git submodules, then you also need to do this:
```
git submodule update --init --recursive
```
